packages/dartcv/README.md, before:

# dartcv

OpenCV Bindings for Dart Language.


|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|                                          <a href="https://codecov.io/github/rainyl/opencv_dart" ><img src="https://codecov.io/github/rainyl/opencv_dart/graph/badge.svg?token=2H0WWT39SN"/></a>                                           | <a href="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rainyl/opencv_dart.svg?style=flat&logo=github&label=stars" alt="Star on Github"></a> | <a href="https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rainyl/opencv_dart" alt="License: Apache-2.0"></a> |
| <a href="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/actions/workflows/build_test_native_assets.yaml"><img src="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/actions/workflows/build_test_native_assets.yaml/badge.svg" alt="Native Assets Build"></a> |                    <a href="https://discord.gg/rtkC7MWvPJ"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1268767086683885598?logo=discord" alt="Discord Server"></a>                    |                                                                                                                                                        |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The minimum required dart sdk version is `3.10` (Flutter `3.38`) that supports hooks (Native-Assets).

> [!NOTE]
> WIP, contributions are welcome!

- [dartcv](#dartcv)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Supported Platforms](#supported-platforms)
  - [Status](#status)
    - [Core Modules](#core-modules)
    - [Contrib Modules](#contrib-modules)
  - [Usage](#usage)
      - [Pure Dart](#pure-dart)
      - [Asynchronous](#asynchronous)
      - [Flutter](#flutter)
      - [Configure hooks options](#configure-hooks-options)
  - [TODO](#todo)
  - [Contributors](#contributors)
  - [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)
  - [Star History](#star-history)
  - [License](#license)

## Example

![example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/main/images/example.png)

## Supported Platforms

| Platform | Supported          | Tested             | Prebuilt Binaries              |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Android  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x86_64, arm64-v8a, armeabi-v7a |
| iOS      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | arm64, x64+arm64(Simulator)    |
| Linux    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64                            |
| Windows  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64                            |
| macOS    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |

## Status

### Core Modules

| module     | Binding status          | Test status             | description             |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
| core       | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Core module             |
| calib3d    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Calib3D module          |
| dnn        | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | DNN module              |
| features2d | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Features2D module       |
| gapi       | :x:                     | :x:                     | GAPI module             |
| highgui    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | HighGUI module          |
| imgcodecs  | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | ImageCodecs module      |
| imgproc    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | ImageProc module        |
| ml         | :x:                     | :x:                     | ML module               |
| objdetect  | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Object Detection module |
| photo      | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Photo module            |
| stitching  | :ballot_box_with_check: | :ballot_box_with_check: | Stitching module        |
| svd        | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | SVD module              |
| video      | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Video module            |
| videoio    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | VideoIO module          |

### Contrib Modules

| module        | Binding status     | Test status        | description          |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| aruco         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | ArUco module         |
| img_hash      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | Image hashing module |
| cuda          | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| wechat_qrcode | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| bgsegm        | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| superres      | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| xfeatures2d   | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| ximgproc      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| xobjdetect    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| xphoto        | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| quality       | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| freetype      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |

- :x: : not finished
- :ballot_box_with_check: : partially supported
- :white_check_mark: : finished
- modules not in the above table are not considered, contributions are welcome
- VideoIO and HighGUI modules dynamically linked FFMPEG, you should be careful with the license, this project takes no responsibility for the license.

## Usage

#### Pure Dart

```dart
import 'package:dartcv4/dartcv.dart' as cv;

void main() {
  final img = cv.imread("test/images/lenna.png", flags: cv.IMREAD_COLOR);
  final gray = cv.cvtColor(img, gray, cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY);
  print("${img.rows}, ${img.cols}");

  cv.imwrite("test_cvtcolor.png", gray);
}
```

#### Asynchronous

```dart
import 'package:dartcv4/dartcv.dart' as cv;
import 'dart:async';
void main() async {
  final img = await cv.imreadAsync("test/images/lenna.png", flags: cv.IMREAD_COLOR);
  final gray = await cv.cvtColorAsync(img, cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY);
  print("${img.rows}, ${img.cols}");

  await cv.imwriteAsync("test_cvtcolor.png", gray);
}
```

#### Flutter

see [example](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/tree/2.x/example/flutter)

~~More examples are on the way...~~ see [opencv_dart.examples](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart.examples) and share yours

#### Configure hooks options

dartcv4 now supports hooks options, you can configure it in `pubspec.yaml`

```yaml
hooks:
  user_defines:
    dartcv4:
      # debug: true
      include_modules: # `core` is always included
        - imgcodecs
        - imgproc
        # ...
      exclude_modules:
        - contrib
        - dnn
        # ...
```

- `debug`: enable debug mode, default is `false`, if enabled, all messages will be printed to stderr.
- valid modules:
  - `core`: always included
  - included by default:
    - `calib3d`
    - `features2d`
    - `imgproc`
    - `imgcodecs`
    - `objdetect`
    - `photo`
    - `stitching`
  - excluded by default:
    - `contrib`
    - `dnn`
    - `freetype`
    - `highgui`
    - `video`
    - `videoio`
- Note: even a module is excluded, it's dart code is still available, but throws a symbol not found exception when called.
- `videoio` and `highgui` will introduce FFMPEG dynamic libraries (except for ios, ffmpeg is not supported on ios for now).

## TODO

- [x] compile libs for android, linux
- [x] support for iOS, macOS
- [x] add more examples
- [ ] documentation
- [x] modify C wrapper to catch exceptions
- [x] Native Assets
- [x] async?
- [x] more/full test coverage
- [x] directly include opencv source code, refactor cmakelists.txt

## Contributors

<!-- readme: contributors,TotemaT -start -->
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/rainyl">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30213663?v=4" width="100;" alt="rainyl"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>rainy liu</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/abdelaziz-mahdy">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25157308?v=4" width="100;" alt="abdelaziz-mahdy"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Abdelaziz Mahdy</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/einsitang">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1745525?v=4" width="100;" alt="einsitang"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>爱因斯唐</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Gold872">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/91761103?v=4" width="100;" alt="Gold872"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Gold87</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Jiinwoo">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46522752?v=4" width="100;" alt="Jiinwoo"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>JinWoo Jung</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/westito">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/536799?v=4" width="100;" alt="westito"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>westito</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Escaton615">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6680284?v=4" width="100;" alt="Escaton615"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Escaton615</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/mdeleau">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/112755117?v=4" width="100;" alt="mdeleau"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>mdeleau</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/lennartalff">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33184858?v=4" width="100;" alt="lennartalff"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Thies Lennart Alff</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/totemat">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9088953?v=4" width="100;" alt="totemat"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Matteo T.</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
		</tr>
	<tbody>
</table>
<!-- readme: contributors,TotemaT -end -->

## Acknowledgement

- `gocv` project: <https://github.com/hybridgroup/gocv> License: Apache-2.0

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=rainyl/opencv_dart&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#rainyl/opencv_dart&Date)

## License

Apache-2.0 License

Commit message:

feat(opencv): update to version 4.13.0 with source build support
- breaking change: switch to building from opencv source code by default
- remove FFMPEG support and update default included/excluded modules
- update package versions to 2.2.0 across both dartcv and opencv_dart

packages/dartcv/README.md, after:

# dartcv

OpenCV Bindings for Dart Language.


|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|                                          <a href="https://codecov.io/github/rainyl/opencv_dart" ><img src="https://codecov.io/github/rainyl/opencv_dart/graph/badge.svg?token=2H0WWT39SN"/></a>                                           | <a href="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rainyl/opencv_dart.svg?style=flat&logo=github&label=stars" alt="Star on Github"></a> | <a href="https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rainyl/opencv_dart" alt="License: Apache-2.0"></a> |
| <a href="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/actions/workflows/build_test_native_assets.yaml"><img src="https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/actions/workflows/build_test_native_assets.yaml/badge.svg" alt="Native Assets Build"></a> |                    <a href="https://discord.gg/rtkC7MWvPJ"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1268767086683885598?logo=discord" alt="Discord Server"></a>                    |                                                                                                                                                        |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The minimum required dart sdk version is `3.10` (Flutter `3.38`) that supports hooks (Native-Assets).

> [!NOTE]
> WIP, contributions are welcome!

- [dartcv](#dartcv)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Supported Platforms](#supported-platforms)
  - [Status](#status)
    - [Core Modules](#core-modules)
    - [Contrib Modules](#contrib-modules)
  - [Usage](#usage)
      - [Pure Dart](#pure-dart)
      - [Asynchronous](#asynchronous)
      - [Flutter](#flutter)
      - [Configure hooks options](#configure-hooks-options)
  - [TODO](#todo)
  - [Contributors](#contributors)
  - [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)
  - [Star History](#star-history)
  - [License](#license)

## Example

![example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/main/images/example.png)

## Supported Platforms

| Platform | Supported          | Tested             | Prebuilt Binaries              |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Android  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x86_64, arm64-v8a, armeabi-v7a |
| iOS      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | arm64, x64+arm64(Simulator)    |
| Linux    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64                            |
| Windows  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64                            |
| macOS    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |

## Status

### Core Modules

| module     | Binding status          | Test status             | description             |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
| core       | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Core module             |
| calib3d    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Calib3D module          |
| dnn        | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | DNN module              |
| features2d | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Features2D module       |
| gapi       | :x:                     | :x:                     | GAPI module             |
| highgui    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | HighGUI module          |
| imgcodecs  | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | ImageCodecs module      |
| imgproc    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | ImageProc module        |
| ml         | :x:                     | :x:                     | ML module               |
| objdetect  | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Object Detection module |
| photo      | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Photo module            |
| stitching  | :ballot_box_with_check: | :ballot_box_with_check: | Stitching module        |
| svd        | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | SVD module              |
| video      | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | Video module            |
| videoio    | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:      | VideoIO module          |

### Contrib Modules

| module        | Binding status     | Test status        | description          |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| aruco         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | ArUco module         |
| img_hash      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | Image hashing module |
| cuda          | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| wechat_qrcode | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| bgsegm        | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| superres      | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| xfeatures2d   | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| ximgproc      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| xobjdetect    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| xphoto        | :x:                | :x:                |                      |
| quality       | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |
| freetype      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |                      |

- :x: : not finished
- :ballot_box_with_check: : partially supported
- :white_check_mark: : finished
- modules not in the above table are not considered, contributions are welcome
- VideoIO and HighGUI modules dynamically linked FFMPEG, you should be careful with the license, this project takes no responsibility for the license.

## Usage

#### Pure Dart

```dart
import 'package:dartcv4/dartcv.dart' as cv;

void main() {
  final img = cv.imread("test/images/lenna.png", flags: cv.IMREAD_COLOR);
  final gray = cv.cvtColor(img, gray, cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY);
  print("${img.rows}, ${img.cols}");

  cv.imwrite("test_cvtcolor.png", gray);
}
```

#### Asynchronous

```dart
import 'package:dartcv4/dartcv.dart' as cv;
import 'dart:async';
void main() async {
  final img = await cv.imreadAsync("test/images/lenna.png", flags: cv.IMREAD_COLOR);
  final gray = await cv.cvtColorAsync(img, cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY);
  print("${img.rows}, ${img.cols}");

  await cv.imwriteAsync("test_cvtcolor.png", gray);
}
```

#### Flutter

see [example](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/tree/2.x/example/flutter)

~~More examples are on the way...~~ see [opencv_dart.examples](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart.examples) and share yours

#### Configure hooks options

dartcv4 now supports hooks options, you can configure it in `pubspec.yaml`

```yaml
hooks:
  user_defines:
    dartcv4:
      # debug: true
      include_modules: # `core` is always included
        - imgcodecs
        - imgproc
        # ...
      exclude_modules:
        - contrib
        - dnn
        # ...
```

- `debug`: enable debug mode, default is `false`, if enabled, all messages will be printed to stderr.
- valid modules:
  - `core`: always included
  - included by default:
    - `imgproc`
    - `imgcodecs`
  - excluded by default:
    - `calib3d`
    - `features2d`
    - `flann`
    - `dnn`
    - `freetype`
    - `highgui`
    - `video`
    - `videoio`
    - `objdetect`
    - `photo`
    - `stitching`
    - `aruco`
    - `img_hash`
    - `quality`
    - `wechat_qrcode`
    - `ximgproc`
    - `xobjdetect`
- Note: even a module is excluded, it's dart code is still available, but throws a symbol not found exception when called.
- ~~`videoio` and `highgui` will introduce FFMPEG dynamic libraries (except for ios, ffmpeg is not supported on ios for now).~~ FFMPEG is no longer availabel with `dartcv >= 2.2.0`

## TODO

- [x] compile libs for android, linux
- [x] support for iOS, macOS
- [x] add more examples
- [ ] documentation
- [x] modify C wrapper to catch exceptions
- [x] Native Assets
- [x] async?
- [x] more/full test coverage
- [x] directly include opencv source code, refactor cmakelists.txt

## Contributors

<!-- readme: contributors,TotemaT -start -->
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/rainyl">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30213663?v=4" width="100;" alt="rainyl"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>rainy liu</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/abdelaziz-mahdy">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25157308?v=4" width="100;" alt="abdelaziz-mahdy"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Abdelaziz Mahdy</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/einsitang">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1745525?v=4" width="100;" alt="einsitang"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>爱因斯唐</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Gold872">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/91761103?v=4" width="100;" alt="Gold872"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Gold87</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Jiinwoo">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46522752?v=4" width="100;" alt="Jiinwoo"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>JinWoo Jung</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/westito">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/536799?v=4" width="100;" alt="westito"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>westito</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/Escaton615">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6680284?v=4" width="100;" alt="Escaton615"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Escaton615</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/mdeleau">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/112755117?v=4" width="100;" alt="mdeleau"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>mdeleau</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/lennartalff">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33184858?v=4" width="100;" alt="lennartalff"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Thies Lennart Alff</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
            <td align="center">
                <a href="https://github.com/totemat">
                    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9088953?v=4" width="100;" alt="totemat"/>
                    <br />
                    <sub><b>Matteo T.</b></sub>
                </a>
            </td>
		</tr>
	<tbody>
</table>
<!-- readme: contributors,TotemaT -end -->

## Acknowledgement

- `gocv` project: <https://github.com/hybridgroup/gocv> License: Apache-2.0

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=rainyl/opencv_dart&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#rainyl/opencv_dart&Date)

## License

Apache-2.0 License
