packages/opencv_core/README.md, before:

# opencv_core

OpenCV for Flutter, if `highgui` or `videoio` is required, use [opencv_dart](https://pub.dev/packages/opencv_dart)

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> OpenCV SDK (~100M) will be downloaded via `FetchContent` of cmake, you can
> set `DARTCV_CACHE_DIR` environment variable to cache it and avoid downloading it again.
> e.g., `export DARTCV_CACHE_DIR=$HOME/.cache/dartcv`

## Supported platforms

| Platform | Supported          | Tested             | Platforms                      |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Android  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x86_64, arm64-v8a, armeabi-v7a |
| iOS      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | arm64, x64(Simulator)          |
| Linux    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |
| Windows  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |
| macOS    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |

## Supported modules

[Supported modules](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart?tab=readme-ov-file#status)

## Customizing OpenCV Modules

You can enable or disable specific OpenCV modules for your build by specifying them in your app's `pubspec.yaml` file.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Currently only Android, Windows, and Linux are supported.

### Example `pubspec.yaml` configuration

```yaml
# ...Your existing configuration...
hooks:
  user_defines:
    dartcv4:
      exclude_modules:
        - contrib
        - dnn
        - features2d
        - core
      include_modules:
        - core # core is always required thus will be ignored even configured here.
        - imgproc
        - videoio
```

- valid modules: `core`, `calib3d`, `contrib`, `dnn`, `features2d`, `flann`, `highgui`, `imgproc`, `imgcodecs`, `objdetect`, `photo`, `stitching`, `video`, `videoio`
- Use `exclude_modules` to disable specific modules, or `include_modules` to enable specific modules.
- If neither is specified, all modules except `highgui` will be enabled.
- also refer to [example/pubspec.yaml](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/blob/main/packages/opencv_dart/example/pubspec.yaml)

## Package Size

![opencv_dart_size_report](images/opencv_core_size_report.svg)

## Examples

see [example](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/tree/main/packages/opencv_core/example)

More examples refet to [awesome-opencv_dart](https://github.com/rainyl/awesome-opencv_dart) and share yours

## Screenshots

see [Demos](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart?tab=readme-ov-file#Demos)

## License

[Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Sync 2.x to main (#386)
* sync with 2.x

- add `UMat`
- [features2d] add more functions/constructions
- add custom loggers, support user-defined logger callback
- add `cv.freetype` module

* bump dartcv to 1.1.8, update changelog

* update readme

packages/opencv_core/README.md, after:

# opencv_core

OpenCV for Flutter, if `highgui` or `videoio` is required, use [opencv_dart](https://pub.dev/packages/opencv_dart)

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> OpenCV SDK (~100M) will be downloaded via `FetchContent` of cmake, you can
> set `DARTCV_CACHE_DIR` environment variable to cache it and avoid downloading it again.
> e.g., `export DARTCV_CACHE_DIR=$HOME/.cache/dartcv`
>
> - Q&A: [#212](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/issues/212) or open new issues.
> - If you are using flutter with [Native Assets](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/129757) feature supported, consider using 2.x version, refer to [2.x](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/tree/2.x)

## Supported platforms

| Platform | Supported          | Tested             | Platforms                      |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Android  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x86_64, arm64-v8a, armeabi-v7a |
| iOS      | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | arm64, x64(Simulator)          |
| Linux    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |
| Windows  | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |
| macOS    | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | x64, arm64                     |

## Supported modules

[Supported modules](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart?tab=readme-ov-file#status)

## Customizing OpenCV Modules

You can enable or disable specific OpenCV modules for your build by specifying them in your app's `pubspec.yaml` file.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Currently only Android, Windows, and Linux are supported.

### Example `pubspec.yaml` configuration

```yaml
# ...Your existing configuration...
hooks:
  user_defines:
    dartcv4:
      exclude_modules:
        - contrib
        - dnn
        - features2d
        - core
      include_modules:
        - core # core is always required thus will be ignored even configured here.
        - imgproc
        - videoio
```

- valid modules: `core`, `calib3d`, `contrib`, `dnn`, `features2d`, `flann`, `freetype`, `highgui`, `imgproc`, `imgcodecs`, `objdetect`, `photo`, `stitching`, `video`, `videoio`
- `freetype` module is disabled by default, if you need it, add it to `include_modules`.
- Use `exclude_modules` to disable specific modules, or `include_modules` to enable specific modules.
- If neither is specified, all modules except `highgui` will be enabled.
- also refer to [example/pubspec.yaml](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/blob/main/packages/opencv_dart/example/pubspec.yaml)


### Note for macOS and iOS users

`freetype` is disabled by default, if you need them, add the following lines to `<your project>/<macos or ios>/Podfile`.

```ruby
target 'Runner' do
  use_frameworks!
  use_modular_headers!

  flutter_install_all_macos_pods File.dirname(File.realpath(__FILE__))

  pod 'DartCvMacOS/freetype', '~> 4.12.0.2' # add this line if you need freetype on macos
  pod 'DartCvIOS/freetype', '~> 4.12.0.2' # add this line if you need freetype on ios

  target 'RunnerTests' do
    inherit! :search_paths
  end
end
```

## Package Size

![opencv_dart_size_report](images/opencv_core_size_report.svg)

## Examples

see [example](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart/tree/main/packages/opencv_core/example)

More examples refet to [awesome-opencv_dart](https://github.com/rainyl/awesome-opencv_dart) and share yours

## Screenshots

see [Demos](https://github.com/rainyl/opencv_dart?tab=readme-ov-file#Demos)

## License

[Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE)
